Hi everyone!
We will continue with Python for loops part two.
First section.
Else block the else keyword in a for loop.
Specify a block of code to be executed when the loop is finished.
When the loop is finished, we will execute the else block.
In this example, we will print all numbers from 0 to 5.
After that we will print finally finished.
Just to note, the else block will not be executed if the loop is stopped by a break statement.
In the second example, when x equal three, we will break from the for loop, and in this case the
else block will not be executed.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute the first and the second example.
In the first example, we said that the else block will be executed when the for loop is finished.
Here the result it will be an output from 0 to 5.
After that, we will print.
Finally finish it.
This is the execution of the else block.
In case of a break statement, when x equal to three, we will break from the for loop.
In this case we will not execute the else block.
Let's see the result.
We print the value 012.
When x equal to three we will break from the for loop.
We will not print the value three and we will not execute the else block.
In the second part we will see the nested loops.
A nested loop is a loop inside a loop.
In Python we have also nested function function inside function or a nested if statement.
When we have an if statement inside an if statement, the inner loop will be executed one time for each
iteration of the outer loop.
Here we will start the first iteration for the outer loop here.
In this example, I take the value one.
We will execute the inner loop.
After that, we will pass to the second iteration of the outer loop, and we will continue until we
finish all the outer iterations.
Let's understand more with this example.
Here x take the value red.
We will execute the inner loop.
Y will take the value apple.
After that take the value banana and the value cherry.
The result it will be red apple, red banana and red cherry.
The second iteration.
When x take the value big, we will execute the inner loop.
The result will be Big apple, big banana, big cherry until we finish all the iteration.
The second example is so easy.
Here I take the value one.
We will execute the inner loop.
The result?
It will be one for one, five for the second iteration.
For the outer loop.
The result it will be 242, five.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute these two examples.
X take the value red.
Y will take the value Apple.
The result it will be red.
Apple.
Select the console.
Red apple.
After that it will be red banana.
And red cherry.
The second iteration will pass to the outer loop.
In this case x.
Take the value big.
X take the value big and y will take the value Apple.
In the console the result it will be Big Apple After that big banana.
Big cherry.
And we will continue to the third iteration in the outer loop.
X take the value test.
And y will take the value apple after that value banana.
And after that value cherry.
The result it will be tasty apple, tasty banana and tasty cherry.
Let's go to the second example.
I will take the value one.
G will take the value for.
The first output it will be one for.
The second output it will be one five.
We will pass to the second iteration.
For the outer loop I take will take the value two, G will take the value for the result.
It will be two for and after that two, five.
Two, four.
And after that two five.
Third section.
The pass statement for loops cannot be empty.
But if you for some reason have a for loop with no content, put in the pass statement.
To avoid getting an error, go to PyCharm and execute this example.
A for loop cannot be empty.
Python will throw a syntax error.
We have indentation error.
In this case, we need to add the pass statement to avoid getting an error.
And that's it for this video.